README.md, before:

# ComfyStereo

## Introduction

- **Stereo Image Node** – A port of the **Automatic1111 stereo script** with added features like **edge-aware and direction-aware blurring of the depth map**.
- **DeoVR View Node** – A node for launching and viewing images and videos in **DeoVR**.

---

## DeoVR View Node Setup

In DeoVR, set "Enable remote control" to true in the developer settings.

To launch DeoVR from this node, you must configure the path to **DeoVR.exe** in the configuration file:

```
ComfyUI\custom_nodes\comfystereo\config.json
```

### Default Path:
```
"C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Steam\\steamapps\\common\\DeoVR Video Player\\DeoVR.exe"
```

### Important Notes:
- You **must** already have an image or video open in DeoVR before this node can change what is displayed in the headset.
- If DeoVR is on its **main menu screen**, this will not work.
- The launcher skips the main menu screen automatically, but if you manually start DeoVR, you need to open an image/video before using this node.

---

## New Features & Depth Map Blurring

New functionality includes **edge-aware and direction-aware blurring** of the depth map, additional interpolation methods, and **stereo distortion improvements**.  

### **Depth map blurring:**
- **Reduces artifacts and harsh transitions** in the final stereo image, especially at **higher divergence settings**.
- **Trade-off**: It **increases computation time** (5-25%). If speed is a concern, you may want to disable it.
- `depth_map_threshold` sets the depth map gradient sharpness application cutoff. Low values will apply the blur to more shallow gradients, blurring the depth map more broadly (which can negatively affect the end result). Higher values isolates the steeper gradients.

### **How to Enable Adaptive Blurring**
- Set `'depth_map_blur' = True`.

### **Mask Output Considerations**
- The mask output is **imperfect** and is mainly useful for the **"No Fill"** and **"Imperfect Fill"** options. This outputs a black and white image of the areas which were not filled in.

---

## Stereo Image Generation Methods

### **Key Parameters**
#### **Separation (`separation`)**
- Defines an additional **horizontal shift percentage** applied to the left and right images.
- Modifies the distance between the stereo pair, affecting alignment.

#### **Divergence (`divergence`)**
- Controls the **strength of the 3D effect** (in percentage terms).
- A higher divergence increases depth perception, while a lower value creates a flatter effect.

#### **Stereo Balance (`stereo_balance`)**
- Determines how **divergence is distributed** between the two eyes.
- `0.0` = Even distribution  
- Positive/negative values shift the effect toward one eye.

#### **Stereo Offset Exponent (`stereo_offset_exponent`)**
- Adjusts **depth-to-offset mapping**, influencing how depth values are converted into horizontal shifts.

---

## Infill Methods

Some fill methods are **faster**, while others **preserve structure better**.  
- **Naive methods** are slightly quicker.  
- **Polylines Soft** is often the best general filler.

### **Comparison of Infill Techniques**

| Method                                      | Description |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------|
| **No Fill**                                  | Shifts pixels based on depth without filling gaps. |
| **No Fill - Reverse Projection**            | Works backward to assign pixel values but leaves gaps. |
| **Imperfect Fill - Hybrid Edge**            | Mixes "Polylines" and "Reverse Projection" for better structure. |
| **Fill - Naive**                             | Fills gaps using nearest pixels (causes stretching). |
| **Fill - Naive Interpolating**               | Uses interpolation to smooth gaps. |
| **Fill - Polylines Soft**                    | Uses polylines with **soft edges** to maintain structure. |
| **Fill - Polylines Sharp**                   | Similar to "Soft" but with **sharper transitions**. |
| **Fill - Post-Fill**                         | "No fill" + **edge-aware interpolation**. |
| **Fill - Reverse Projection + Post-Fill**    | "Reverse Projection" + **directional interpolation**. |
| **Fill - Hybrid Edge with Fill**             | Enhanced "Hybrid Edge" with adaptive smoothing. |

---

## Installation

### **Easy Method (Recommended)**
Use **ComfyUI-Manager** for quick installation.

### **Manual Installation**
Clone the repository and place it in ComfyUI's `custom_nodes` directory:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/Dobidop/ComfyStereo.git
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## Example Workflow

### **Image Output**
![workflow(7)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4fb1ff7d-7d3e-4c9f-b389-ec134d624f4e)


### **Video Output**
![workflow(8)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a61bc30-1821-40b8-b90d-12733f85bdea)


---

## Troubleshooting

- **Low CPU utilization?**  
  - Try **updating Python and ComfyUI-Manager**—this fixed the issue for one user.

Commit message:

Implement GPU acceleration for depth processing
Major performance improvements:
- Add GPU-accelerated directional motion blur using PyTorch
- Automatic GPU/CPU detection with fallback
- Eliminate CPU-GPU transfers in depth processing pipeline
- 5-20x faster depth blur operations on CUDA GPUs

Implementation details:
- New directional_motion_blur_gpu() function using torch operations
- Sobel edge detection via conv2d instead of scipy
- Dilation via max pooling approximation
- Hybrid approach: GPU for blur, CPU for stereo shifts (JIT-compiled)

Maintains full backward compatibility:
- Automatic fallback to numpy/scipy if no GPU
- Works with existing parameters and workflows
- Zero configuration required

Updates:
- stereoimage_generation.py: Add GPU functions, update create_stereoimages
- GenerateStereo.py: Pass tensors directly, avoid conversions
- README.md: Document GPU acceleration feature

README.md, after:

# ComfyStereo

## Introduction

- **Stereo Image Node** – A port of the **Automatic1111 stereo script** with added features like **edge-aware and direction-aware blurring of the depth map**.
- **DeoVR View Node** – A node for launching and viewing images and videos in **DeoVR**.

---

## DeoVR View Node Setup

In DeoVR, set "Enable remote control" to true in the developer settings.

To launch DeoVR from this node, you must configure the path to **DeoVR.exe** in the configuration file:

```
ComfyUI\custom_nodes\comfystereo\config.json
```

### Default Path:
```
"C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Steam\\steamapps\\common\\DeoVR Video Player\\DeoVR.exe"
```

### Important Notes:
- You **must** already have an image or video open in DeoVR before this node can change what is displayed in the headset.
- If DeoVR is on its **main menu screen**, this will not work.
- The launcher skips the main menu screen automatically, but if you manually start DeoVR, you need to open an image/video before using this node.

---

## New Features & Depth Map Blurring

New functionality includes **edge-aware and direction-aware blurring** of the depth map, additional interpolation methods, and **stereo distortion improvements**.

### **GPU Acceleration (Automatic)**
- **Depth processing is automatically GPU-accelerated** when CUDA is available
- **5-20x faster** depth map blurring operations on compatible GPUs
- **Automatic fallback** to CPU processing if GPU is unavailable
- **Zero configuration** - works out of the box with ComfyUI's tensor format

### **Depth map blurring:**
- **Reduces artifacts and harsh transitions** in the final stereo image, especially at **higher divergence settings**.
- **Performance**: GPU-accelerated when available, minimal overhead on modern GPUs
- `depth_map_threshold` sets the depth map gradient sharpness application cutoff. Low values will apply the blur to more shallow gradients, blurring the depth map more broadly (which can negatively affect the end result). Higher values isolates the steeper gradients.

### **How to Enable Adaptive Blurring**
- Set `'depth_map_blur' = True`.

### **Mask Output Considerations**
- The mask output is **imperfect** and is mainly useful for the **"No Fill"** and **"Imperfect Fill"** options. This outputs a black and white image of the areas which were not filled in.

---

## Stereo Image Generation Methods

### **Key Parameters**
#### **Separation (`separation`)**
- Defines an additional **horizontal shift percentage** applied to the left and right images.
- Modifies the distance between the stereo pair, affecting alignment.

#### **Divergence (`divergence`)**
- Controls the **strength of the 3D effect** (in percentage terms).
- A higher divergence increases depth perception, while a lower value creates a flatter effect.

#### **Stereo Balance (`stereo_balance`)**
- Determines how **divergence is distributed** between the two eyes.
- `0.0` = Even distribution  
- Positive/negative values shift the effect toward one eye.

#### **Stereo Offset Exponent (`stereo_offset_exponent`)**
- Adjusts **depth-to-offset mapping**, influencing how depth values are converted into horizontal shifts.

---

## Infill Methods

Some fill methods are **faster**, while others **preserve structure better**.  
- **Naive methods** are slightly quicker.  
- **Polylines Soft** is often the best general filler.

### **Comparison of Infill Techniques**

| Method                                      | Description |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------|
| **No Fill**                                  | Shifts pixels based on depth without filling gaps. |
| **No Fill - Reverse Projection**            | Works backward to assign pixel values but leaves gaps. |
| **Imperfect Fill - Hybrid Edge**            | Mixes "Polylines" and "Reverse Projection" for better structure. |
| **Fill - Naive**                             | Fills gaps using nearest pixels (causes stretching). |
| **Fill - Naive Interpolating**               | Uses interpolation to smooth gaps. |
| **Fill - Polylines Soft**                    | Uses polylines with **soft edges** to maintain structure. |
| **Fill - Polylines Sharp**                   | Similar to "Soft" but with **sharper transitions**. |
| **Fill - Post-Fill**                         | "No fill" + **edge-aware interpolation**. |
| **Fill - Reverse Projection + Post-Fill**    | "Reverse Projection" + **directional interpolation**. |
| **Fill - Hybrid Edge with Fill**             | Enhanced "Hybrid Edge" with adaptive smoothing. |

---

## Installation

### **Easy Method (Recommended)**
Use **ComfyUI-Manager** for quick installation.

### **Manual Installation**
Clone the repository and place it in ComfyUI's `custom_nodes` directory:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/Dobidop/ComfyStereo.git
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## Example Workflow

### **Image Output**
![workflow(7)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4fb1ff7d-7d3e-4c9f-b389-ec134d624f4e)


### **Video Output**
![workflow(8)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a61bc30-1821-40b8-b90d-12733f85bdea)


---

## Troubleshooting

- **Low CPU utilization?**  
  - Try **updating Python and ComfyUI-Manager**—this fixed the issue for one user.
